<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<body style="white-space: pre-wrap;">

Title: The Melodic Hill

Once upon a time, a tailor and a goldsmith wandered together through those lands. One evening, as the sun had set behind the mountains, they heard the distant sounds of music, growing clearer with each step. It was a strange yet joyful melody that made them forget their weariness and quicken their pace. The moon had risen by the time they reached a hill, where they saw a multitude of tiny men and women, holding hands, dancing in a circle, and leaping with great joy and delight. As they danced, they sang sweetly – this was the music our travelers had heard.

In the center of the circle stood an old man, slightly taller than the others, dressed in a colorful coat, with a white beard flowing down to his chest. The two friends stopped, amazed, to witness the scene. With a gesture, the old man invited them to join the circle, and the dwarfs opened up to let them through. The hunchbacked goldsmith, bold by nature as hunchbacks tend to be, entered without hesitation, while the somewhat timid tailor hesitated for a moment. Finally, caught up in the general merriment, he gathered courage and joined as well.

The circle closed again, and the dwarfs resumed singing and dancing, bounding about wildly. Suddenly, the old man unsheathed a large knife hanging from his belt and began sharpening it. When he deemed it sharp enough, he looked at the outsiders. They were frozen with fear. Without giving them a chance to think, the old man seized the goldsmith and, with prodigious agility, shaved off his hair and beard. He did the same with the tailor. Their fear dissipated, however, when they saw that, after the operation, the old man gave them friendly taps on the shoulder, as if congratulating them for behaving well and allowing themselves to be shaved without protest. He showed them a pile of coal nearby, gesturing for them to fill their pockets. Both complied, although they couldn't see how the coal would be of use to them. They then continued on their way in search of shelter for the night. When they reached the valley, the bell of a nearby convent struck twelve. Immediately, the singing ceased, everything disappeared, and the hill fell silent and lonely, illuminated by the moon.

The two wanderers found an inn, and without undressing, lay down to sleep on a bed of straw. They were so tired that they didn't even manage to take the coal out of their pockets. A great weight pressing on their limbs woke them earlier than usual. They reached into their pockets and couldn't believe their eyes when they found them filled not with coal but with pure gold. Furthermore, their hair and beards had grown back, thicker than before.

Now, they were transformed into wealthy individuals, especially the goldsmith, who, being naturally greedy, had filled his pockets twice as much as the tailor. However, the more an avaricious person has, the more they desire. Thus, the goldsmith suggested to his companion to spend the day there and return to the hill in the evening to ask the old man for new riches. The tailor refused, saying:

"I have enough, and I am content. Now I will become a master of my trade, marry my sweetheart (as he called his girlfriend), and be a happy man." However, not to upset the goldsmith, he decided to stay there that day.

In the evening, the goldsmith hung a pair of bags over his shoulder to carry a good load and began the ascent to the hill. As the day before, he found the gnomes at the summit, engaged in their songs and dances. The old man shaved him again and gestured to take coal. Without the slightest hesitation, he filled the bags and pockets until they burst, returned to his friend, and went to sleep without undressing. "Even though gold is heavy," he said to himself, "I will endure it well," and he fell asleep, with the sweet hope of waking up a millionaire the next day. When he opened his eyes, he quickly sat up to examine his pockets. Much to his enormous astonishment, he pulled out nothing but black coal, no matter how much he looked and searched.

"I still have the gold from the previous night," he said, and upon taking it out, he saw with terror that it had also turned back into coal. He slapped his forehead with blackened hands, realizing that his head and beard were completely shaved. But his troubles did not end there, as he soon noticed that a second, even larger hump had joined the one on his back. He then recognized that all this was punishment for his greed and burst into bitter tears. The kind tailor woke up at the sound of his lamentations and, offering comforting words, ended up saying:

"You were my companion in my wandering days; therefore, you will stay with me and share my wealth." And he kept his word. However, the unfortunate goldsmith had to drag his two humps for the rest of his life and cover his head with a cap.

</body>
</html>
